# asymptotic-convergence
MATLAB code for the work "Asymptotically Achieving Centralized Rate on the Decentralized Network MISO Channel", published in IEEE Trans. Information Theory.

Reference:
    "Asymptotically Achieving Centralized Rate on the Decentralized Network MISO Channel", 
    IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY, VOL. 68, NO. 1, JANUARY 2022, 
    A. Bazco-Nogueras, P. de Kerret, D. Gesbert, and N. Gresset.
    DOI: 10.1109/TIT.2021.3121752
    https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9585093

## Summary of the work - Asymptotically Achieving Centralized Rate on the Decentralized Network MISO Channel

This work analyzes the achievable rate of cooperative transmission in a decentralized wireless scenario. 
In particular, we focus on a network in which a set of non-colocated transmitters aim at simultaneously serving a set of single-antenna users. It has been usually considered that the precoder computation and the interference management are done in a centralized manner, or that at least all the transmitters share the same (maybe imperfect) information about the channel state. 

In this work, however, we study the case where each transmitter may have a different estimate of the channel matrix. This configuration appears in current networks for (the increasingly common) heterogeneous deployments, where each transmitter may have different capabilities and/or it may be connected through the rest of the network through a limited connection. 

For this configuration, we show that the decentralized scenario can asymptotically achieve the same performance of the centralized counterpart (where all transmitters have access to the best channel estimate among them) in the high-SNR regime. 

We present a novel scheme that achieves a performance comparable to that achieved by standard zero-forcing-type precoders in the centralized scenario. This scheme exploits the fact that the transmitters with more precise channel knowledge can compensate and correct the interference generated by the less precise transmitters. 

This work shed light on a particular trade-off that is inherent to the distributed setting and does not appear in the centralized case: The trade-off between local precision (which is required to obtain a good interference management) and the global coherence of the information (since the local precision cannot compensate the errors created by another transmitter if the local transmitter does not have precise knowledge of the other transmitter's information). 

The MATLAB code in this project contains the simulation of different baseline schemes, ideal bounds, and the proposed scheme, for a set of possible system configurations. 

## Structure of the MATLAB code

The structure of the project is simple. The main file,  named "MAIN_TIT_Bazco" and contains all the configurable variables. 
Each file whose name starts by 'precoder_' contains a fucntion for one of the studied precoding algorithms. 

The files alpha_quantizer and rate_users are simple functions used for the computation of the rates (rate_users) and as a part of one of the algorithms (alpha_quantizer).

Please, refer to the paper for further details. 

## Support

If you have any question, suggestion, or comment, please contact Antonio Bazco at 'antonio.bazco@imdea.org'

## License

This project is under the license
[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

The code and content can be distributed, remixed, adapted, and other work can be built upon it, as long as appropiate credit is included for the original creation. 
